Austria is opening ski resorts with limited capacity from Christmas Eve, for locals only. The country's chancellor Sebastian Kurz said on December 2 that skiing could resume from December 24, for the festive period -- but only for people living close to the slopes.
Kurz said skiing, at least for the day, would be possible "for a large part of our population." But he added that lift capacity would be limited and hotels and accommodation providers would remain shut until January 7.
Restaurants, cafes, bars and clubs will also remain closed until January 7, according to Kurz, allowing for the possibility that if infection rates drop, the government may loosen restrictions.
But the limited relaxation of rules for locals has been accompanied by new quarantine requirements for travelers, which were unveiled by the government at the beginning of December. ''Tourist travel is currently de facto not possible in Austria, in light of the measures against the coronavirus," the government statement said.
The new rules mean that until January 10, all arrivals in Austria from a country with more than 100 Covid-19 cases per 100,000 people in the previous two weeks will have to quarantine for 10 days.
This period can be shortened if visitors test negative after five days in isolation.Belgium has allowed non-essential shops to reopen from December 1. Museums and swimming pools are also allowed to open, in accordance with their industry protocols.
But the country will continue to require people to comply with social distancing protocols over the festive break.
"During the Christmas period, social contact rules will continue to apply," Belgium's Consultative Committee said in a statement on November 30.
People living alone will be allowed to be with two other people, maximum, "on Christmas Eve or Christmas Day, to protect their psychosocial well-being," the committee said. "For meetings outside, the rule of four continues to apply."
A policeman controls people in the main commercial street of Brussels, on December 5.
